.TH "BORG-INSTALL" "1" "2025-03-15" "borg-scripts 0.3"

.SH NAME
.P
borg-install \- Build and install your own version of borg from source.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY borg-install
.B \-b
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-t
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-i
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-r
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-c
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-v
.YS
.SY borg-install
.B \-h
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B borg-install
is a script to build your own installation of the borg backup utility from 
source pulled from GitHub. You may be able to use a prebuilt version of the
utility, or one supplied by your package manager, and therefore do not need to
use this script. You should only use this script if you have reason to believe
the other prebuilt options will not work for your use case. Use of this script
may also require that certain other tools be available on your system, such as
git, python3, and pkg-config.
.P
The first form (\-b) is used to build the borg backup utility. It will download
the source code from GitHub, prepare a python build environment, and create a
python package of the utility.
.P
The second form (\-t) performs a simple test on the package built with (\-b).
.P
The third form (\-i) attempts to install the borg backup utility package, that
you built with (\-b), into /usr/local. It is likely you will need to use
\'sudo\' to use the (\-i) option. If successful, this step will leave \'borg\'
on your path.
.P
The fourth form (\-r) attempts to remove the installation from \-i. It is
likely you will need to use \'sudo\' for this option.
.P
The fifth form (\-c) will remove all of the artifacts that were created by
(\-b). It cleans your working directory.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-b"
download source and build the borg backup utility package
.IP "-t"
run a simple test on the package that was built with -b
.IP "-i"
installs the package built with -b into /usr/local/share, and creates a
symlink /usr/local/bin/borg that points there. This option probably requires
you to use \'sudo\'
.IP "-r"
uninstalls what was installed with -i. Also probably requires sudo
.IP "-c"
"cleans", removes everything that was downloaded and built by -b
.IP "-v"
show version
.IP "-h"
show help
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.P
Returns non-zero if an error is detected, 0 otherwise. In some error cases
there may be a useful message.
.SH FILES
.I /usr/local/share/borg-(platform), /usr/local/bin/borg
.RS
Files and directories that are installed by -i.
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR borg-scripts(1),
.BR borg-backup(1),
.BR borg-logs(1),
.BR borg-agent(1),
.BR borg-verify(1)
