.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Joseph Kroesche
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "BORG-SCRIPTS" "1" "2025-03-15" "borg-scripts 0.3"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
borg-scripts \- A collection of scripts for managing borg backups.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
.B borg-scripts
is a collection of shell scripts to help manage backups using the Borg backup
utility.  To date, these scripts were developed for use on MacOS and have only
been tested there. The scripts could be made to work on Linux with some
modifications. They are intended for user mode backup and run with user
permissions and are not designed for system level backups.
.P
See the man page for each of the scripts for more details.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SCRIPTS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP borg-backup(1)
the main backup script
.IP borg-agent(1)
installs aand manages launch agents for automated, scheduled backups
.IP borg-logs(1)
manage logs generated by the backup launch agent
.IP borg-verify(1)
verify backups made with borg-backup
.IP borg-install(1)
download, build, and install the borg backup utility
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
While it should be possible to locate this script package in any accessible
directory, it is intended to be located in
.I ~/.config/borg-scripts.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.B <https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>
