.TH "BORG-BACKUP" "1" "2024-12-02" "borg-scripts 0.1"

.SH NAME
.P
borg-backup \- Run a backup using 'borg' backup utility, using a config file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY borg-backup
.B \-b
.I SET_NAME
.RB [ \-n
.IR compact ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR prune ]
.YS
.SY borg-backup
.B \-t
.I SET_NAME
.YS
.SY borg-backup
.B \-l
.YS
.SY borg-backup
.B \-h
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B borg-backup
is a script to assist with making backups using 'borg'. It uses the concept of
"backup sets" which are named configurations. Each backup set can have its own
backup paths and exclusions.
.P
The first form is used to make a backup of the specified backup set.
.P
The second form tests the backup by performing a dry-run. The backup results
are printed to the console but no backup is actually performed. This can be
used to test a backup and make sure it does what is intended.
.P
The third form is used to list all the defined backup sets.
.P
A backup set is defined in a configuration file, named like
"borg\-set\-example.cfg". In this example the name of the backup set is
"example". The configuration file has several variables defined to configure
the paths that will be backed up as well as paths to exclude. Look in the
example file comments for more details about what needs to go in this file.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-b SET_NAME"
perform a backup of the specified data set
.IP "-t SET_NAME"
perform a dry-run backup, show what would happen without actually backing up
any files
.IP "-n prune"
disable the prune operation at the end of a backup
.IP "-n compact"
disable the compact operation at the end of a backup
.IP "-l"
list the available backup set definitions
.IP \-h
show help
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.P
Returns non-zero if an error occurred at any stage, or zero if all stages were
successful.
.
.SH FILES
.P
The configuration files are located in the same directory as the
.I borg-backup
script.
.P
.I ./borg-set-SETNAME.cfg
.RS
Configuration file for the backup set named SETNAME.
.
.RE
.I ./borg-repo.cfg
.RS
Configuration file defining the borg repository and credentials.
.RE
.I ./exclude-common.txt
.RS
Common files and paths to be excluded from all backup sets.
.RE
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
.B $ borg-backup -b example
.EE
.RS
Perform a backup of the backup set named "example".
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR borg-scripts(1),
.BR borg-agent(1),
.BR borg-logs(1)
.P
.B <https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>
