.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Joseph Kroesche
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "BS-AGENT" "1" "2025-03-15" "bs-scripts 0.3"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
bs-agent \- Install and manage MacOS launch agent for borg backup.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SY bs-agent
.RB [ \-D
.IR DAY ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR HOUR ]
.RB [ \-M
.IR MIN ]
.B \-i
.I SET_NAME
.YS
.SY bs-agent
.RB [ \-D
.IR DAY ]
.RB [ \-H
.IR HOUR ]
.RB [ \-M
.IR MIN ]
.I SET_NAME
.YS
.SY bs-agent
.RB [\~\-l\~|\~\-u\~|\~\-r\~|\~\-s\~|\~\-p\~]
.I SET_NAME
.YS
.SY bs-agent
.B \-a
.YS
.SY bs-agent
.B \-v
.YS
.SY bs-agent
.B \-h
.YS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
.B bs-agent
is a helper script to make it easier to install a borg backup script as a
LaunchAgent on MacOS. It will generate the necessary plist file, and optionally
install it. Options are also provided to help with loading, unloading, and
running the launch agent.
.P
The first form is used to create the launch agent with a scheduled run time and
install it into the LaunchAgent system.
.P
The second form is similar except the plist file is displayed to the console
and not installed. This is useful for verifying the plist file before
installing it.
.P
The third form is for manipulating and querying the installed agent.
.P
The fourth form lists all of the installed backup agent plist files.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP SET_NAME
the name of the backup set (required parameter)
.IP "-D DAY"
day of week to schedule (0-Sunday). If \-D is not used, then the schedule
will run daily.
.IP "-H HOUR"
hour of the day to run. If \-H is not used, then the schedule will run hourly.
.IP "-M MIN"
minute of the hour to run (default 5)
.IP "-i SET_NAME"
install the plist into ~/Library/LaunchAgents
.IP "-l SET_NAME"
load the agent
.IP "-u SET_NAME"
unload the agent
.IP "-r SET_NAME"
run the agent on demand, ignoring the schedule, useful for testing
.IP "-s SET_NAME"
query the agent status
.IP "-p SET_NAME"
print the contents of the plist file
.IP "-a"
produce a list of backup agent plist files in ~/Library/LaunchAgents
.IP \-v
show version
.IP \-h
show help
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
Returns non-zero if an error is detected, 0 otherwise.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/local.HOSTNAME.backup.SET_NAME.plist
.RS
The launch agent plist file, installed location.
.RE
.I ~/Library/Logs/bs-backup.log
.RS
The output log of the backup script that is run by the launch agent.
.RE
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.EX
.B $ bs-agent -D 1 -H 22 -M 15 -i mybackup
.B $ bs-agent -l mybackup
.EE
.RS
Creates an agent for backup set named 'mybackup' to run every Monday at 22:15,
and installs it. The second line loads it into the LaunchAgent system.
.RE
.EX
.B $ bs-agent -H 3 mybackup
.EE
.RS
Creates an agent plist for backup set named 'mybackup', to run hourly at 03:05,
and shows the plist to the console (does not install).
.RE
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.BR bs-scripts(1),
.BR bs-backup(1),
.BR bs-logs(1),
.BR bs-verify(1),
.BR launchctl(1)
