.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Joseph Kroesche
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "BS-BACKUP" "1" "2025-03-15" "bs-scripts 0.3"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
bs-backup \- Run a backup using 'borg' backup utility, using a config file.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SY bs-backup
.B \-b
.I SET_NAME
.RB [ \-n
.IR compact ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR prune ]
.YS
.SY bs-backup
.B \-t
.I SET_NAME
.YS
.SY bs-backup
.B \-l
.YS
.SY bs-backup
.B \-v
.YS
.SY bs-backup
.B \-V
.YS
.SY bs-backup
.B \-h
.YS
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
.B bs-backup
is a script to assist with making backups using 'borg'. It uses the concept of
"backup sets" which are named configurations. Each backup set can have its own
backup paths and exclusions.
.P
The first form is used to make a backup of the specified backup set.
.P
The second form tests the backup by performing a dry-run. The backup results
are printed to the console but no backup is actually performed. This can be
used to test a backup and make sure it does what is intended.
.P
The third form is used to list all the defined backup sets.
.P
A backup set is defined in a configuration file, named like
"bs\-set\-example.cfg". In this example the name of the backup set is
"example". The configuration file has several variables defined to configure
the paths that will be backed up as well as paths to exclude. Look in the
example file comments for more details about what needs to go in this file.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP "-b SET_NAME"
perform a backup of the specified data set
.IP "-t SET_NAME"
perform a dry-run backup, show what would happen without actually backing up
any files
.IP "-n prune"
disable the prune operation at the end of a backup
.IP "-n compact"
disable the compact operation at the end of a backup
.IP "-l"
list the available backup set definitions
.IP \-v
verbose output (for troubleshooting
.IP \-V
show version
.IP \-h
show help
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
Returns non-zero if an error occurred at any stage, or zero if all stages were
successful.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
The following configuration files are used:
.P
.I bs-scripts.cfg
.RS
Configuration file defining borg repository and credentials as well as other
features of the
.BR bs-scripts \~package.
.RE
.P
.I bs-set-SETNAME.cfg
.RS
Configuration file for the backup set named SETNAME.
.RE
.P
.I exclude-common.txt
.RS
Common files and paths to be excluded from all backup sets.
.RE
.P
The location of configuration files is determined in the following order:
.P
.IP \(bu
at
.B $BS_SCRIPTS_CONFIG,
if defined
.IP \(bu
the current directory
.IP \(bu
at
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bs-scripts,
if XDG_CONFIG_HOME is defined
.IP \(bu
at
.B $HOME/.config/bs-scripts,
if present
.IP \(bu
the directory containing the
.I bs-backup
script and other bs-scripts
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.EX
.B $ bs-backup -b example
.EE
.RS
Perform a backup of the backup set named "example".
.RE
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.BR bs-scripts(1),
.BR bs-agent(1),
.BR bs-logs(1),
.BR bs-verify(1)
.P
.B <https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>
