.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Joseph Kroesche
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH "BORG-VERIFY" "1" "2025-03-30" "borg-scripts 0.3"
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
borg-verify \- Verify integrity of backup made with
.B borg-backup(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY borg-verify
.B \-a
.I ARCHIVE
.B \-e
.I EXTRACT_PATH
.RB [\~\-t
.IR HOST_ROOT\~]
.RB [\~\-n\~]
.SY borg-verify
.B \-i
.I EXTRACT_ID
.B \-t
.I HOST_ROOT
.RB [\~\-n\~]
.YS
.SY borg-verify
.B \-l
.SY borg-verify
.B \-c
.I EXTRACT_ID
.SY borg-verify
.B \-s
.I EXTRACT_ID
.YS
.SY borg-verify
.B \-v
.SY borg-verify
.B \-h
.YS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
.B borg-verify
is a utility script used to verify the integrity of backups that were made
using the 'borg' backup utility, or more specifically, the
.BR borg-backup(1)
script.
When used normally, it extracts a portion of an existing backup set from your
borg repository, and then verifies it against the same files on your host
computer.
It uses file checksums to verify they are the same.
The extracted backup data is cached in a temporary directory until you delete
it.
.P
The first form is used to extract some data from an existing backup archive,
and optionally verify the extracted file data in integrity against the existing
file system.
The
.I ARCHIVE
parameter is the name of the borg archive.
You can use 'borg list' to get a list of the archives in your repository.
The parameter
.I EXTRACT_PATH
is the path within the archive that will be extracted to a local cache.
Keep in mind that this will perform a restore of the entire path that you
specify, so it is best to choose a path that represents enough of your backed
up data to give you confidence, yet not so much that it takes a long time to
restore, and occupy a large amount of space on the host system.
If
.BI \-t \~HOST_ROOT
is also specified, then the extracted backup data will be verified against
files in the host filesystem.
.P
The second form is used to verify files that were previously extracted using
.BR \-e .
Each time a data set is extracted using
.BR \-e ,
the extracted data is cached and metadata is saved and given an ID, the
.IR EXTRACT_ID.
You can see a list of all the saved data by using the
.B \-l
option.
This option allows you to reverify a backup set that was previously extracted
without needing to restore from the backup again.
.P
The next group of options is used to manage the extracted backup data.
Use
.B \-l
to list all of the data that has been cached and is still stored on your host
system.
Use
.B \-c
to remove a specific set of data.
Use this option to clean old data sets that you no longer need. You should run
this once are satisfied that the backup has been verified, in order to avoid
accumulating larges sets of restored backups in temporary directories.
Use
.B \-s
to see metadata for the extracted backup data. This option will show the
temporary location of the cached backup data.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.IP "-a ARCHIVE"
the name of the borg repository archive to extract for verification
.IP "-e EXTRACT_PATH"
the path within the archive to extract
.IP "-t HOST_ROOT"
the location in the host filesystem to use as a starting point for verification
.IP "-i EXTRACT_ID"
the ID of a previously extracted backup set
.IP "-n"
perform a "noisy" verification.
This will show all files, including OK results.
Without this option, only errors are shown
.IP "-l"
list all available extracted backup sets
.IP "-s EXTRACT_ID"
show all known details about an extracted backup set
.IP "-c EXTRACT_ID"
delete the cached backup data set and related metadata
.IP "-v"
show package version
.IP "-h"
show help
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXIT STATUS
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
Returns non-zero if an error is detected, 0 otherwise.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.I ~/.local/share/borg-scripts
.P
The location where the backup extraction metadata is stored. It is best to use
.B \-l
and
.B \-c
options to manage this data rather than accessing these files directly.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NOTES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
This tool is not meant as a general restore tool.
It is meant to assist with verifying backups by extracting a portion of a
backup archive and then verifying it against the existing file system on the
host.
.P
You should probably choose an extraction path (-e) that is a small subset of
your entire backup set, but still enough to give you confidence in the
integrity of your backup.
The more files in the extraction path, the more data will have to be restored
and the longer it will take.
.P
The extracted backup data is stored in a temporary location that should be
eventually deleted by the OS.
However it is probably best practice to just go ahead and clean '-c' the
extracted backup sets once you are done verifying your backups.
.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.P
Suppose a user made a backup of "Users/joe/" which was saved in a remote borg
repository with archive name "home-2024-12-15T22:15".
The following command will verify a subset of data located at
"Users/joe/Documents/records/2024", and verify it against the local filesystem
root "/".
This examples shows that all files verified except for a couple of filesystem
metadata files that are not required to be backed up:
.P
.RS
.EX
.B $ borg-verify \-a home-2024-12-15T22:15\c
\-e Users/joe/Documents/records/2024 \-t /
Generating sums for: / / Users/joe/Documents/records/2024
Verifying sums ...
sha256sum:  Users/joe/Documents/records/2024/.DS_Store: No such file or directory
sha256sum:  Users/joe/Documents/records/2024/receipts/.DS_Store: No such file or directory
.EE
.RE
.P
List all of the extracted backup sets.
There is only one in this example:
.P
.RS
.EX
.B $ borg-verify \-l
1: 2025-03-28T22:37 | home-2024-12-15T22:15 | Users/joe/Documents/records/2024
.EE
.RE
.P
Remove ("clean") the extracted backup data and metadata associated with
.BR ID\~1 .
.P
.RS
.EX
.B $ borg-verify\~\-c\~1
Attempting to remove temporary directory of extracted backup ...
/var/folders/km/fx98npv147z29yfk30y7zvtm0000gn/T/tmp.RkD4ontPRu
Removing metadata file
.EE
.RE
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.BR borg-scripts(1),
.BR borg-backup(1),
.BR borg-logs(1),
.BR borg-agent(1)
